Firecracker is an open-source virtualization technology developed by
Amazon Web Services (AWS) for running lightweight, secure microVMs
(micro virtual machines). It is designed to enable efficient,
high-density container and function-based workloads. Here are the key
features and benefits of Firecracker VMs:

Key Features

1\. Lightweight and Fast: Firecracker is built for minimal overhead,
booting microVMs in less than 125 milliseconds and consuming just a few
megabytes of memory. This makes it suitable for scenarios requiring
high-density and rapid startup times.

2\. Security: Firecracker provides strong security boundaries with a
minimal attack surface by excluding unnecessary devices and features
found in traditional virtual machines. Each microVM runs in its own
process, isolated from others.

3\. Resource Efficiency: Designed to optimize the use of host resources,
Firecracker supports over-subscription, allowing more workloads to run
concurrently on the same hardware without significant performance
degradation.

4\. API-Driven Management: Firecracker can be managed using a RESTful
API, facilitating automation and integration into existing orchestration
frameworks. This API-centric approach streamlines the process of
creating, configuring, and managing microVMs.

5\. Open Source: As an open-source project under the Apache 2.0 license,
Firecracker allows for community contributions and transparent
development processes, enabling a wide range of use cases and
innovation.

Use Cases

1\. Serverless Computing: Firecracker is particularly well-suited for
serverless environments where functions need to be started quickly,
executed efficiently, and terminated immediately after use.

2\. Container Workloads: It provides an additional layer of isolation
and security compared to traditional container runtimes, making it ideal
for multi-tenant environments.

3\. CI/CD Pipelines: The fast startup times and resource efficiency of
Firecracker make it an excellent choice for continuous integration and
continuous deployment (CI/CD) systems that need to spin up short-lived
environments quickly.

4\. Microservices: For microservices architectures that demand quick
scaling and high isolation, Firecracker ensures that each service can
run in its isolated environment without compromising performance.

Architecture

Firecracker runs on KVM (Kernel-based Virtual Machine) and makes use of
Linux\'s virtualization capabilities. The architecture strips down
traditional VM components, focusing on what's necessary to run microVMs
efficiently: - Minimal Device Model: Only essential devices like a
VirtIO network, block device, and a serial console. - Single-purpose
Design: Designed to run one guest workload at a time, simplifying the VM
model. - API for Management: Comprehensive control via an HTTP API for
creating, configuring, and managing VMs.

Technical Details and Features

Minimalist Design

Device Model: Firecracker only includes essential devices such as a
VirtIO network device, block device, and a serial console. This helps
reduce the attack surface and improves performance. Exclusion of
Unnecessary Features: Features not essential to running a microVM are
excluded, such as a graphical user interface (GUI) or unused hardware
drivers. Performance

Boot Time: Firecracker VMs can boot in as little as 125 milliseconds.
This rapid startup time is crucial for applications requiring quick
scaling and low latency.

Memory Footprint: Each Firecracker microVM requires only a few megabytes
of memory, enabling high-density deployments where many VMs can be run
on a single host.

CPU Overhead: Firecracker is optimized to use minimal CPU resources,
allowing more processing power to be allocated to guest workloads.

Security Jailer: Firecracker uses a \"jailer\" process to enforce
security boundaries. The jailer sets up a chroot environment, seccomp
filters, and other security features before launching the microVM.

Isolation: Each microVM runs in its own process, isolated from others.
This isolation is more robust compared to traditional container-based
isolation.

Seccomp Filters: Firecracker employs seccomp (secure computing mode)
filters to restrict the system calls that the microVM can make, reducing
the risk of exploitation.

Comparison with Other Technologies

\- vs. Traditional VMs: Firecracker VMs are lighter and start faster
than traditional VMs, making them better for high-density, transient
workloads. - vs. Containers: While containers share the host OS kernel
and can start even faster, Firecracker VMs provide stronger isolation
and security, which is crucial in multi-tenant environments. - vs. Other
MicroVM Solutions: Compared to other microVM solutions like Kata
Containers or gVisor, Firecracker focuses on minimalism and speed, often
resulting in better performance for specific workloads.

Getting Started with Firecracker

To start using Firecracker, you can follow these general steps: 1.
Installation: Download and install Firecracker from the official
repository or through package managers. 2. Configuration: Configure the
host environment and prepare a kernel image and root filesystem. 3. API
Interaction: Use the REST API to create and manage microVMs.
